docs/content.zh/docs/connectors/datastream/formats/csv.md, before:

---
title:  "CSV"
weight: 4
type: docs
aliases:
- /dev/connectors/formats/csv.html
- /apis/streaming/connectors/formats/csv.html
---
<!--
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
distributed with this work for additional information
regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
"License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
software distributed under the License is distributed on an
"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.
-->


# CSV format

To use the CSV format you need to add the Flink CSV dependency to your project:

```xml
<dependency>
	<groupId>org.apache.flink</groupId>
	<artifactId>flink-csv</artifactId>
	<version>{{< version >}}</version>
</dependency>
```

For PyFlink users, you could use it directly in your jobs.

Flink supports reading CSV files using `CsvReaderFormat`. The reader utilizes Jackson library and allows passing the corresponding configuration for the CSV schema and parsing options.

`CsvReaderFormat` can be initialized and used like this:
```java
CsvReaderFormat<SomePojo> csvFormat = CsvReaderFormat.forPojo(SomePojo.class);
FileSource<SomePojo> source = 
        FileSource.forRecordStreamFormat(csvFormat, Path.fromLocalFile(...)).build();
```

The schema for CSV parsing, in this case, is automatically derived based on the fields of the `SomePojo` class using the `Jackson` library.

{{< hint info >}}
Note: you might need to add `@JsonPropertyOrder({field1, field2, ...})` annotation to your class definition with the fields order exactly matching those of the CSV file columns.
{{< /hint >}}

### Advanced configuration

If you need more fine-grained control over the CSV schema or the parsing options, use the more low-level `forSchema` static factory method of `CsvReaderFormat`:

```java
CsvReaderFormat<T> forSchema(Supplier<CsvMapper> mapperFactory, 
                             Function<CsvMapper, CsvSchema> schemaGenerator, 
                             TypeInformation<T> typeInformation) 
```
Below is an example of reading a POJO with a custom columns' separator:
```java
//Has to match the exact order of columns in the CSV file
@JsonPropertyOrder({"city","lat","lng","country","iso2",
                    "adminName","capital","population"})
    public static class CityPojo {
    public String city;
    public BigDecimal lat;
    public BigDecimal lng;
    public String country;
    public String iso2;
    public String adminName;
    public String capital;
    public long population;
}

Function<CsvMapper, CsvSchema> schemaGenerator = mapper ->
        mapper.schemaFor(CityPojo.class).withoutQuoteChar().withColumnSeparator('|');

CsvReaderFormat<CityPojo> csvFormat =
        CsvReaderFormat.forSchema(() -> new CsvMapper(), schemaGenerator, TypeInformation.of(CityPojo.class));

FileSource<CityPojo> source =
        FileSource.forRecordStreamFormat(csvFormat, Path.fromLocalFile(...)).build();
```
The corresponding CSV file:
```
Berlin|52.5167|13.3833|Germany|DE|Berlin|primary|3644826
San Francisco|37.7562|-122.443|United States|US|California||3592294
Beijing|39.905|116.3914|China|CN|Beijing|primary|19433000
```
It is also possible to read more complex data types using fine-grained `Jackson` settings:
```java
public static class ComplexPojo {
    private long id;
    private int[] array;
}

CsvReaderFormat<ComplexPojo> csvFormat =
        CsvReaderFormat.forSchema(
                CsvSchema.builder()
                        .addColumn(
                                new CsvSchema.Column(0, "id", CsvSchema.ColumnType.NUMBER))
                        .addColumn(
                                new CsvSchema.Column(4, "array", CsvSchema.ColumnType.ARRAY)
                                        .withArrayElementSeparator("#"))
                        .build(),
                TypeInformation.of(ComplexPojo.class));
```

For PyFlink users, a csv schema can be defined by manually adding columns, and the output type of the csv source will be a Row with each column mapped to a field.
```python
schema = CsvSchema.builder() \
    .add_number_column('id', number_type=DataTypes.BIGINT()) \
    .add_array_column('array', separator='#', element_type=DataTypes.INT()) \
    .set_column_separator(',') \
    .build()

source = FileSource.for_record_stream_format(
    CsvReaderFormat.for_schema(schema), CSV_FILE_PATH).build()

# the type of record will be Types.ROW_NAMED(['id', 'array'], [Types.LONG(), Types.LIST(Types.INT())])
ds = env.from_source(source, WatermarkStrategy.no_watermarks(), 'csv-source')
```

The corresponding CSV file:
```
0,1#2#3
1,
2,1
```

Similarly to the `TextLineInputFormat`, `CsvReaderFormat` can be used in both continues and batch modes (see [TextLineInputFormat]({{< ref "docs/connectors/datastream/formats/text_files" >}})  for examples).

For PyFlink users, `CsvBulkWriters` could be used to create `BulkWriterFactory` to write records to files in CSV format.

```python
schema = CsvSchema.builder() \
    .add_number_column('id', number_type=DataTypes.BIGINT()) \
    .add_array_column('array', separator='#', element_type=DataTypes.INT()) \
    .set_column_separator(',') \
    .build()

sink = FileSink.for_bulk_format(
    OUTPUT_DIR, CsvBulkWriters.for_schema(schema)).build()

ds.sink_to(sink)
```

Commit message:

[FLINK-26760][flink-csv] The new CSV source (file system source + CSV format) does not support reading files whose file encoding is not UTF-8

docs/content.zh/docs/connectors/datastream/formats/csv.md, after:

---
title:  "CSV"
weight: 4
type: docs
aliases:
- /dev/connectors/formats/csv.html
- /apis/streaming/connectors/formats/csv.html
---
<!--
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
distributed with this work for additional information
regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
"License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
software distributed under the License is distributed on an
"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.
-->


# CSV format

To use the CSV format you need to add the Flink CSV dependency to your project:

```xml
<dependency>
	<groupId>org.apache.flink</groupId>
	<artifactId>flink-csv</artifactId>
	<version>{{< version >}}</version>
</dependency>
```

For PyFlink users, you could use it directly in your jobs.

Flink supports reading CSV files using `CsvReaderFormat`. The reader utilizes Jackson library and allows passing the corresponding configuration for the CSV schema and parsing options.

`CsvReaderFormat` can be initialized and used like this:
```java
CsvReaderFormat<SomePojo> csvFormat = CsvReaderFormat.forPojo(SomePojo.class);
FileSource<SomePojo> source = 
        FileSource.forRecordStreamFormat(csvFormat, Path.fromLocalFile(...)).build();
```

The schema for CSV parsing, in this case, is automatically derived based on the fields of the `SomePojo` class using the `Jackson` library.

{{< hint info >}}
Note: you might need to add `@JsonPropertyOrder({field1, field2, ...})` annotation to your class definition with the fields order exactly matching those of the CSV file columns.
{{< /hint >}}

### Advanced configuration

If you need more fine-grained control over the CSV schema or the parsing options, use the more low-level `forSchema` static factory method of `CsvReaderFormat`:

```java
CsvReaderFormat<T> forSchema(Supplier<CsvMapper> mapperFactory, 
                             Function<CsvMapper, CsvSchema> schemaGenerator, 
                             TypeInformation<T> typeInformation) 
```
Below is an example of reading a POJO with a custom columns' separator:
```java
//Has to match the exact order of columns in the CSV file
@JsonPropertyOrder({"city","lat","lng","country","iso2",
                    "adminName","capital","population"})
    public static class CityPojo {
    public String city;
    public BigDecimal lat;
    public BigDecimal lng;
    public String country;
    public String iso2;
    public String adminName;
    public String capital;
    public long population;
}

Function<CsvMapper, CsvSchema> schemaGenerator = mapper ->
        mapper.schemaFor(CityPojo.class).withoutQuoteChar().withColumnSeparator('|');

CsvReaderFormat<CityPojo> csvFormat =
        CsvReaderFormat.forSchema(() -> new CsvMapper(), schemaGenerator, TypeInformation.of(CityPojo.class));

FileSource<CityPojo> source =
        FileSource.forRecordStreamFormat(csvFormat, Path.fromLocalFile(...)).build();
```
The corresponding CSV file:
```
Berlin|52.5167|13.3833|Germany|DE|Berlin|primary|3644826
San Francisco|37.7562|-122.443|United States|US|California||3592294
Beijing|39.905|116.3914|China|CN|Beijing|primary|19433000
```
It is also possible to read more complex data types using fine-grained `Jackson` settings:
```java
public static class ComplexPojo {
    private long id;
    private int[] array;
}

CsvReaderFormat<ComplexPojo> csvFormat =
        CsvReaderFormat.forSchema(
                CsvSchema.builder()
                        .addColumn(
                                new CsvSchema.Column(0, "id", CsvSchema.ColumnType.NUMBER))
                        .addColumn(
                                new CsvSchema.Column(4, "array", CsvSchema.ColumnType.ARRAY)
                                        .withArrayElementSeparator("#"))
                        .build(),
                TypeInformation.of(ComplexPojo.class));
```

If you need to change the default encoding(UTF-8), you can use `withCharset`:

```java
CsvReaderFormat<Pojo> csvFormat = ...
csvFormat.withCharset(Charset.forName("GBK"));
```

For PyFlink users, a csv schema can be defined by manually adding columns, and the output type of the csv source will be a Row with each column mapped to a field.
```python
schema = CsvSchema.builder() \
    .add_number_column('id', number_type=DataTypes.BIGINT()) \
    .add_array_column('array', separator='#', element_type=DataTypes.INT()) \
    .set_column_separator(',') \
    .build()

source = FileSource.for_record_stream_format(
    CsvReaderFormat.for_schema(schema), CSV_FILE_PATH).build()

# the type of record will be Types.ROW_NAMED(['id', 'array'], [Types.LONG(), Types.LIST(Types.INT())])
ds = env.from_source(source, WatermarkStrategy.no_watermarks(), 'csv-source')
```

The corresponding CSV file:
```
0,1#2#3
1,
2,1
```

Similarly to the `TextLineInputFormat`, `CsvReaderFormat` can be used in both continues and batch modes (see [TextLineInputFormat]({{< ref "docs/connectors/datastream/formats/text_files" >}})  for examples).

For PyFlink users, `CsvBulkWriters` could be used to create `BulkWriterFactory` to write records to files in CSV format.

```python
schema = CsvSchema.builder() \
    .add_number_column('id', number_type=DataTypes.BIGINT()) \
    .add_array_column('array', separator='#', element_type=DataTypes.INT()) \
    .set_column_separator(',') \
    .build()

sink = FileSink.for_bulk_format(
    OUTPUT_DIR, CsvBulkWriters.for_schema(schema)).build()

ds.sink_to(sink)
```
